README.md, before:

# Angular QuickStart Source
[![Build Status][travis-badge]][travis-badge-url]

This repository holds the TypeScript source code of the [angular.io quickstart](https://angular.io/docs/ts/latest/quickstart.html),
the foundation for most of the documentation samples and potentially a good starting point for your application.

It's been extended with testing support so you can start writing tests immediately.

**This is not the perfect arrangement for your application. It is not designed for production.
It exists primarily to get you started quickly with learning and prototyping in Angular**

We are unlikely to accept suggestions about how to grow this QuickStart into something it is not.
Please keep that in mind before posting issues and PRs.

## Prerequisites

Node.js and npm are essential to Angular development. 
    
<a href="https://docs.npmjs.com/getting-started/installing-node" target="_blank" title="Installing Node.js and updating npm">
Get it now</a> if it's not already installed on your machine.
 
**Verify that you are running at least node `v4.x.x` and npm `3.x.x`**
by running `node -v` and `npm -v` in a terminal/console window.
Older versions produce errors.

We recommend [nvm](https://github.com/creationix/nvm) for managing multiple versions of node and npm.

## Create a new project based on the QuickStart

Clone this repo into new project folder (e.g., `my-proj`).
```bash
git clone  https://github.com/angular/quickstart  my-proj
cd my-proj
```

We have no intention of updating the source on `angular/quickstart`.
Discard everything "git-like" by deleting the `.git` folder.
```bash
rm -rf .git  # non-Windows
rd .git /S/Q # windows
```

### Create a new git repo
You could [start writing code](#start-development) now and throw it all away when you're done.
If you'd rather preserve your work under source control, consider taking the following steps.

Initialize this project as a *local git repo* and make the first commit:
```bash
git init
git add .
git commit -m "Initial commit"
```

Create a *remote repository* for this project on the service of your choice.

Grab its address (e.g. *`https://github.com/<my-org>/my-proj.git`*) and push the *local repo* to the *remote*.
```bash
git remote add origin <repo-address>
git push -u origin master
```
## Install npm packages

> See npm and nvm version notes above

Install the npm packages described in the `package.json` and verify that it works:

```bash
npm install
npm start
```

The `npm start` command first compiles the application, 
then simultaneously re-compiles and runs the `lite-server`.
Both the compiler and the server watch for file changes.

Shut it down manually with `Ctrl-C`.

You're ready to write your application.

### npm scripts

We've captured many of the most useful commands in npm scripts defined in the `package.json`:

* `npm start` - runs the compiler and a server at the same time, both in "watch mode".
* `npm run tsc` - runs the TypeScript compiler once.
* `npm run tsc:w` - runs the TypeScript compiler in watch mode; the process keeps running, awaiting changes to TypeScript files and re-compiling when it sees them.
* `npm run lite` - runs the [lite-server](https://www.npmjs.com/package/lite-server), a light-weight, static file server, written and maintained by
[John Papa](https://github.com/johnpapa) and
[Christopher Martin](https://github.com/cgmartin)
with excellent support for Angular apps that use routing.

Here are the test related scripts:
* `npm test` - compiles, runs and watches the karma unit tests
* `npm run e2e` - run protractor e2e tests, written in JavaScript (*e2e-spec.js)

## Testing

The QuickStart documentation doesn't discuss testing.
This repo adds both karma/jasmine unit test and protractor end-to-end testing support.

These tools are configured for specific conventions described below.

*It is unwise and rarely possible to run the application, the unit tests, and the e2e tests at the same time.
We recommend that you shut down one before starting another.*

### Unit Tests
TypeScript unit-tests are usually in the `app` folder. Their filenames must end in `.spec`.

Look for the example `app/app.component.spec.ts`.
Add more `.spec.ts` files as you wish; we configured karma to find them.

Run it with `npm test`

That command first compiles the application, then simultaneously re-compiles and runs the karma test-runner.
Both the compiler and the karma watch for (different) file changes.

Shut it down manually with `Ctrl-C`.

Test-runner output appears in the terminal window.
We can update our app and our tests in real-time, keeping a weather eye on the console for broken tests.
Karma is occasionally confused and it is often necessary to shut down its browser or even shut the command down (`Ctrl-C`) and
restart it. No worries; it's pretty quick.

### End-to-end (E2E) Tests

E2E tests are in the `e2e` directory, side by side with the `app` folder.
Their filenames must end in `.e2e-spec.ts`.

Look for the example `e2e/app.e2e-spec.ts`.
Add more `.e2e-spec.js` files as you wish (although one usually suffices for small projects);
we configured protractor to find them.

Thereafter, run them with `npm run e2e`.

That command first compiles, then simultaneously starts the Http-Server at `localhost:8080`
and launches protractor.  

The pass/fail test results appear at the bottom of the terminal window.
A custom reporter (see `protractor.config.js`) generates a  `./_test-output/protractor-results.txt` file
which is easier to read; this file is excluded from source control.

Shut it down manually with `Ctrl-C`.

[travis-badge]: https://travis-ci.org/angular/quickstart.svg?branch=master
[travis-badge-url]: https://travis-ci.org/angular/quickstart

Commit message:

Readme changes for debugging erros and what different files do.

README.md, after:

# Note to myself

If you receive errors like Cannot find module '../lib/tsc.js', try the following:
Delete your node_modules folder and run npm install again. Usually this means that the node_modules library
was altered (potentially for the github pages).

# Notes about the different relatively mysterious files
tsconfig.json - Configuration for typescript, {sourcemap: True} makes sure that typscript will generate
map files which allows debugging of typescript files

e2e folder - End to end testing folder. Files that end with -spec are testing files.

package.json - Angular's pom.xml file. Contains dependencies. Project name. And what specific commands actually run for the project.

app.routing.ts - The routing module for angular 2. It registers all components to quickly cycle between routerLink elements.
The components will replace the contents of router-outlet with their defined templates.

System.config.js - Contains a description already but not sure how it specifically differs from packages.json just yet.

# Angular QuickStart Source
[![Build Status][travis-badge]][travis-badge-url]

This repository holds the TypeScript source code of the [angular.io quickstart](https://angular.io/docs/ts/latest/quickstart.html),
the foundation for most of the documentation samples and potentially a good starting point for your application.

It's been extended with testing support so you can start writing tests immediately.

**This is not the perfect arrangement for your application. It is not designed for production.
It exists primarily to get you started quickly with learning and prototyping in Angular**

We are unlikely to accept suggestions about how to grow this QuickStart into something it is not.
Please keep that in mind before posting issues and PRs.

## Prerequisites

Node.js and npm are essential to Angular development. 
    
<a href="https://docs.npmjs.com/getting-started/installing-node" target="_blank" title="Installing Node.js and updating npm">
Get it now</a> if it's not already installed on your machine.
 
**Verify that you are running at least node `v4.x.x` and npm `3.x.x`**
by running `node -v` and `npm -v` in a terminal/console window.
Older versions produce errors.

We recommend [nvm](https://github.com/creationix/nvm) for managing multiple versions of node and npm.

## Create a new project based on the QuickStart

Clone this repo into new project folder (e.g., `my-proj`).
```bash
git clone  https://github.com/angular/quickstart  my-proj
cd my-proj
```

We have no intention of updating the source on `angular/quickstart`.
Discard everything "git-like" by deleting the `.git` folder.
```bash
rm -rf .git  # non-Windows
rd .git /S/Q # windows
```

### Create a new git repo
You could [start writing code](#start-development) now and throw it all away when you're done.
If you'd rather preserve your work under source control, consider taking the following steps.

Initialize this project as a *local git repo* and make the first commit:
```bash
git init
git add .
git commit -m "Initial commit"
```

Create a *remote repository* for this project on the service of your choice.

Grab its address (e.g. *`https://github.com/<my-org>/my-proj.git`*) and push the *local repo* to the *remote*.
```bash
git remote add origin <repo-address>
git push -u origin master
```
## Install npm packages

> See npm and nvm version notes above

Install the npm packages described in the `package.json` and verify that it works:

```bash
npm install
npm start
```

The `npm start` command first compiles the application, 
then simultaneously re-compiles and runs the `lite-server`.
Both the compiler and the server watch for file changes.

Shut it down manually with `Ctrl-C`.

You're ready to write your application.

### npm scripts

We've captured many of the most useful commands in npm scripts defined in the `package.json`:

* `npm start` - runs the compiler and a server at the same time, both in "watch mode".
* `npm run tsc` - runs the TypeScript compiler once.
* `npm run tsc:w` - runs the TypeScript compiler in watch mode; the process keeps running, awaiting changes to TypeScript files and re-compiling when it sees them.
* `npm run lite` - runs the [lite-server](https://www.npmjs.com/package/lite-server), a light-weight, static file server, written and maintained by
[John Papa](https://github.com/johnpapa) and
[Christopher Martin](https://github.com/cgmartin)
with excellent support for Angular apps that use routing.

Here are the test related scripts:
* `npm test` - compiles, runs and watches the karma unit tests
* `npm run e2e` - run protractor e2e tests, written in JavaScript (*e2e-spec.js)

## Testing

The QuickStart documentation doesn't discuss testing.
This repo adds both karma/jasmine unit test and protractor end-to-end testing support.

These tools are configured for specific conventions described below.

*It is unwise and rarely possible to run the application, the unit tests, and the e2e tests at the same time.
We recommend that you shut down one before starting another.*

### Unit Tests
TypeScript unit-tests are usually in the `app` folder. Their filenames must end in `.spec`.

Look for the example `app/app.component.spec.ts`.
Add more `.spec.ts` files as you wish; we configured karma to find them.

Run it with `npm test`

That command first compiles the application, then simultaneously re-compiles and runs the karma test-runner.
Both the compiler and the karma watch for (different) file changes.

Shut it down manually with `Ctrl-C`.

Test-runner output appears in the terminal window.
We can update our app and our tests in real-time, keeping a weather eye on the console for broken tests.
Karma is occasionally confused and it is often necessary to shut down its browser or even shut the command down (`Ctrl-C`) and
restart it. No worries; it's pretty quick.

### End-to-end (E2E) Tests

E2E tests are in the `e2e` directory, side by side with the `app` folder.
Their filenames must end in `.e2e-spec.ts`.

Look for the example `e2e/app.e2e-spec.ts`.
Add more `.e2e-spec.js` files as you wish (although one usually suffices for small projects);
we configured protractor to find them.

Thereafter, run them with `npm run e2e`.

That command first compiles, then simultaneously starts the Http-Server at `localhost:8080`
and launches protractor.  

The pass/fail test results appear at the bottom of the terminal window.
A custom reporter (see `protractor.config.js`) generates a  `./_test-output/protractor-results.txt` file
which is easier to read; this file is excluded from source control.

Shut it down manually with `Ctrl-C`.

[travis-badge]: https://travis-ci.org/angular/quickstart.svg?branch=master
[travis-badge-url]: https://travis-ci.org/angular/quickstart
